well senior Hamas representative Osama
hamdan is joining us on the phone from
Beirut thank you for your time Mr hamdan
what's your reaction to Egypt's
proposal well uh I have to say that uh
what you have said came from uh media
resources we are not talking about solid
ideas introduced yet uh and that doesn't
mean some of those ideas were dealt
during the negotiations or the talks
between Hamas
and the Egyptians and maybe other
mediators but it is still ideas talked
about and our uh position clear position
was no talks about uh any kind of
prisoners exchange without a complete
ceasefire with the Israeli withdrawal
from Gaza well the Egyptian proposal
does call for a complete ceasefire be it
in stages while Israeli captives are
released in exchange for Palestinians in
Israeli jails are you open to that if
there is a complete stop in the
fighting well as as I've said uh we
can't talk about any kind of uh
arrangements to in the issue without a
complete Israeli uh ceasefire and
withdrawal from uh GZA uh no one accept
to negotiate under the fair not Hamas
nor anyone else uh and if anyone seeks
to help the Palestinians if anyone seeks
to uh find a solution which can prevent
the Palestinians from being killed daily
uh or committed the massacr against them
he has to start from this point from
stubbing the massacre being committed to
against the Palestinians this is the the
first step uh to solve any kind of
arrangements or to talk about any kind
of arrangements uh on the basis of the
brazar exchange okay the proposal also
calls for the establishment this is
later on this is after a ceasefire is
ceasefire is implemented it also calls
for the establishment of a government of
experts to rule Gaza and the West Bank
for a transitional period before
presidential and parliamentary elections
if there is a ceasefire would Hamas
allow that further down the
line well uh let's say uh that uh the
idea of who will be the ruler of the
Palestinians and the leading ship of the
Palestinians is an internal Palestinian
issue and our clear position all the
time was the people must the Palestinian
people must elect their own leadership
no one has the right to dictate uh a
leadership for the Palestinians the
Americans the Israelis nor neither other
anyone else so simply but that is
exactly what the proposal is saying the
proposal is saying that it will be a
group of Palestinian experts for a
temporary period before presidential and
parliamentary elections are held they're
not saying that the US or Israel will
decide on on what happens who who who
will
decide uh this uh temporary leadership
who will decide to
uh select those people or or who is in
charge to nominate those people if it
was a Palestinian decision well we don't
mind to NE to discuss that among our
Palestinian fellows but if it was
dictated by anyone else it will be
rejected directly okay what about if
both sides can agree again on a
ceasefire would Hamas require a third
party to oversee Israel's withdrawal
from Gaza
well it's clear that uh we need someone
to guarantee any kind of arrangement
with the Israel uh when we have talked
about the temporary ceasefire in the
last few weeks uh Israelis Israeli
troops violated that all the time and uh
there was a kind of uh observation and
interference from uh our brothers in
Qatar and in Egypt that makes the the
situation uh to be handled for a few
days no one can trust the Israelis no
one can trust their uh uh any kind of
arrangements with them so there must be
someone who can control or at least talk
directly to the Israelis making the
needed pressure so they can implement
the complete or the the any Arrangements
completely and and who would Hamas trust
to be that
party
well it's it's clear that we can't trust
the Americans because they are Partners
in the massacre commited in GDA but uh
for sure we are trusting our brothers in
in in Qatar and Egypt and they canate
that and they can also observe that all
right that is senior Hamas
representative Osama hamdan joining us
on the phone from Beirut thank you very
much for your
time